<style>
  .large {
    font-size: 32px;
  }

  .medium {
    font-size: 24px;
  }

  .small {
    font-size: 16px;
  }
</style>

<table>
    <thead>
        <td>
            << Previous Chapter
        </td>
        <td>
            0/5?
        </td>
        <td>
            <a href="./01. Storage.md">Next Chapter >></a>
        </td>
    </thead>
</table>

<h1>
  <span class="medium">Chapter 0</span>
  <span class="large">Introduction</span>
</h1>

<p>A digital computer is essentially made up of one or more Central Processing Units (CPUs), which carry out a program, which is a continuous stream of instructions. A symbolic mapping is included to make managing machine language programs easier. This mapping and the rules that go with it make up an Assembly Language that makes CPU programming easier.</p>

## 0.1 Computer
There are various types of computers, with the <b>digital</b> computer being the most commonly recognized by people. Other types include <b>analog</b> and <b>quantum</b> computers.

A digital computer processes data represented using numeric values, typically in binary form (0 and 1). A typical digital computer comprises <b>storage systems</b>, <b>CPU</b>, <b>input output peripherals</b>,...
### 0.1.1 Storage Systems
Computer storage systems are used to hold the data and instructions for the CPU.
#### 0.1.1.1 Volatile Storage
Volatile storage is characterized by the fact that it <b>will lose</b> its contents any time that it is powered off.

There include CPU's registers, RAM,...
#### 0.1.1.2 Non-Volatile Storage
Non-volatile storage is characterized by the fact that it <b>will not lose</b> its contents when it is powered off.

Common types of non-volatile storage are disc drives, ROM flash cards, USB drives,...
### 0.1.2 CPU
The circuits and registers that make up the CPU are designed to exchange information and commands with the main memory and alter register data. The CPU is directed to perform different mathematical and logical operations on the data stored in its registers by instructions acquired from the main memory. These instructions also describe where the results of those operations should be stored.
#### 0.1.2.1 Execution Unit
The execution unit is the part of a CPU that is in charge of organizing every aspect of instruction operations. It controls how data and instructions are transferred between the CPU and main memory and tells the registers when to store and retrieve data. The ALU (Arithmetic and Logic Unit) is also under the direction of the execution unit.
#### 0.1.2.2 Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU)
The ALU is what calculates the sum, difference, and so on... under the supervision of the execution unit, when an instruction manipulates data by carrying out operations like addition, subtraction, comparison, or other similar ones.
#### 0.1.2.3 Registers
The RV32 CPU design consists of multiple special-purpose registers and 31 general-purpose registers, each of which may carry 32 bits, each of which represents a binary digit of one or zero. The CPU does not provide the registers with the names x1, x2,..., x31 any particular purpose; instead, it uses them for general purposes. The special-purpose registers x0 and pc are two essential ones.

Regardless of attempted alterations, register x0 always holds the value zero or logical false. Any instruction that tries to change the value in x0 will be unsuccessful. Since zero representation is frequently required, x0 is regarded as a general-purpose register even if it is hard-wired to zero.

The CPU uses the PC register, also referred to as the program counter, to keep the memory address where program instructions are kept.

The width of an integer register in bits, which can be 32, 64, or 128 bits, is indicated by the term XLEN. The Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) specifies how many bits are in each register.

### 0.2 Instruction Set Architecture (ISA)
An Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) is a list of rules that specify the characteristics and specific commands that a single CPU offers. An ISA is typically defined by the exact meaning of every binary instruction that the CPU recognizes and the processing method that goes along with it.

### 0.3 Executing Program in CPU
The execution of a program involves continuous repetition of a series of instruction cycles, each consisting of three phases: fetch, decode, and execute.
#### 0.3.1 Fetch
To fetch an instruction from the main memory, the CPU updates the address stored in the PC (program counter) register, and then requests the main memory to provide the data stored at that address.
#### 0.3.2 Decode
After an instruction has been fetched, it undergoes inspection to determine the operation(s) to be executed. This involves examining the components of the instruction that specify which registers are involved and any actions to be performed by the ALU (Arithmetic and Logic Unit).
#### 0.3.3 Execute
Instructions typically involve actions like adding a number to a register's value or storing a register's content into memory. After executing an instruction, the CPU usually proceeds to the next sequential memory address. Parameters for instructions are either within the instruction or in general-purpose registers. Some instructions can redirect the CPU to execute an instruction at a different address.